# My opinion on Tailwind CSS

Recently, over the past few months, I learned Tailwind CSS. I wanted to learn another way of doing css other than normal css and SASS/SCSS that I have learned previously. Would I recommend Tailwind CSS? Absolutely!

Now I understand why Tailwind CSS is so common in the front end industry today. At first, it seems to clutter the HTML. But with practice, it's quite simple to navigate and maintain. Honestly, one of the first features that come to mind for me is the fact that since each HTML element has its own tailwind css classes, it is so easy to look at what css is doing what between child and parent elements. No more do I have to scroll around and make sure I am looking at the right class, and if that class is assigned properly in normal css files. Not only is tailwind css nice to use, but it comes with one particular feature that is great for junior developers: ONE constant-sized css file! Despite being aware of how big css files can get, I still get carried away when I am trying to prototype or get an application working, making the css files large and aplenty. Tailwind uses one single file, making performance consistent and predictable. 

Overall, Tailwind CSS is a great css framework for a developer, and it has impressed me with its features and abilities to improve the developer experience. However, being early in my career, I continue to compare and contrast tools and tech to see which ones I would prefer, if I had to choose one. In another post I will compare SCSS and Tailwind CSS, and state why I think one is "better" than the other, at least given a development context.
