
# Firebase Is Weird With Next.js (3 reasons why I switched away from its BaaS)

Firebase is a great backend-as-a-service that allows developers to set up a backend and database with ease and speed. The service includes authentication, authorization, NoSQL databases, and many more backend services that can be a headache to set up. However, it has its own headaches that eventually turned me away from it probably for good. Here are my top 3 reasons (and recent issues) that I have for no longer using Firebase for my future projects.

## 1. Firebase Is Not Nice With Next.js Authentication And Data
I just recently was working on my side project that I had originally set up to use only React. Over time, I learned more tools and frameworks, and ultimately enjoyed the way Next.js works with routes, SEO, and SSR. So, I made the switch by "restarting" my project by using Next.js instead. The problem was, I still planned on using Firebase, because I wanted to focus on the frontend and overall application functionality versus the raw backend logic and security. I did not know how Firebase worked with Next.js, but I went ahead anyway. I quickly found out almost immediately how strange it was to work with Firebase and Next.js when I tried to get client authentication to work with the server side of Next.js. Well, it just doesn't, and it leaves strange errors or null values on the currently signed in user. After an hour of playing around, I realized that Next.js and Firebase needed to be reconciled through the client side, because Firebase requires the client to posess their authentication, AND get their data through their authentication. The problem was Next.js still partially renders client components and then sends it to the client. This problem was fixed by forcing Next.js to send the whole component to the client, and allow the Firebase authentication to work and get data. After all that bug fixing and confusion, it still would create a strange user experience, where the data would have to pop in, and worse of all, if you refreshed the page, the data disappeared! Despite the user being authenticated and the server resending the component, the data still had a tough time getting to the user. 

In the end I decided to just move away from Firebase for this project, especially since it ruins the point of using some of Next.js's features, like progressive development that allows the user to not have to enable javascript. This would be impossible with Firebase, since the backend is managed for you and the client has to run a lot of Firebase code just to work properly. Now the second problem with Firebase relates to this code, and how it can be overbearing to deal with when trying to focus on the frontend anyway.

## 2. You Have To Learn Firebase's API's Anyway
Why use Firebase? Because you don't have to "worry" about setting up a database and backend, and don't have to learn those concepts in theory. How to use Firebase? You have to learn about setting up their database and backend. Oh, and you have to learn about what code to run and when anyway. This is a big reason for me to switch away from Firebase to a proprietary backend, because the whole point of not using a backend is to get something set up fast and abstract away a lot of things. Firebase forces you to learn their way of setting up and running code related to databases, security, file upload and download, and even more depending on the scope of your project.

Ultimately, it just made more sense to me to set up a backend MongoDB-Next.js configuration for my project myself, especially since it is simple authentication and I can set it up in a fraction of the time without having to understand the generic-modular-code documentation of Firebase. Better yet, the mongodb-next.js/node.js combo can be used in any kind of frontend project by using api endpoints. Firebase can only really be used in projects where you really know what is required from you and how your framework responds to it, and I learned that it just doesn't work properly in the way that I like.

## 3. Get To Learning The Backend, Junior Dev!
Not necessarily a deciding factor, but still a good factor is that I should continue to really learn how the web works on the backend as well. It actually is a reason to stick with Firebase, but with the constant evolving tech landscape, I just couldn't get myself to continue ignoring the backend logic of things. Especially since I have some practice with backend logic, it just makes sense to stop using Firebase and really challenge myself on learning the more hard logic of web development. I got lazy with this project I had and just wanted to get something on my portfolio quickly, but ultimately it bit back and delayed the project. Besides, I think technical hiring managers will respect more broad knowledge and expertise applied in a project than just a "quick" solution.

My days with Firebase are over! At least for now. I really am enjoying learning more backend logic, and it actually helps explain why we do certain things on the frontend. Firebase, like almost anything in the tech industry, is just another tool, and knowing how and when to use it is what makes develpers experts in their work and provide value to our modern economy.
