# General Benefits of Moving an App to AWS (and other serverless platforms)

The first and formost benefit of serverless that comes to mind is the automatic scaling. An app can use containerization, like docker, to help scale an app as demand grows. With AWS and other platforms, we can scale an app's microservices according to demand. If we need more databases and backend instances to help service a growing app, then containers and container orchestration combined with AWS S3 can instantiate more of these services as needed. If we only need more databases to serve more database interactions, then we can simply instantiate more of those instances. If we need more servers to help handle more website traffic, then we can just instantiate those containers as needed. Serverless is great for scale, but also for other things like developer experience and logistics.

As a developer, I only need to worry about the code. Everything else is maintained for me, such as database redundancy and reliability, server configuration, physical servers and security, and several other things. As a developer I only work on the underlying business logic, so that I can rapidly create a product that meets customer needs and scales to users' demands. AWS, like many other cloud providers, allows a fast, scalable, and understandable solution to modern software problems. However, the fact AWS and serverless environments handle so much for us, we lose the ability to configure those aspects ourselves. We have to keep in mind that this is just another tool in the toolbox among many, and cannot solve every single problem entirely. Serverless has its benefits, but it also has drawbacks that keep us on our feet, and keep us on the alert for which tool best suits our needs as businesses, developers, and users. 
