# Single Page Application Routers (React.js), and What That Means On The Backend (Node.js)

Today I explored in futher detail what node.js is really about and how the web works by using a Udemy course. Initially, my exposure to node.js was through my Full Stack Development 1 class, but we only went through vanilla terms and quick summaries just so we could get a project delivered in time for grading. Now, after learning more about how node.js works exactly, I now know precisely what is meant by a "Single Page Application" (and therefore what a multi-page app is as well).

First, I learned the frontend and then how react works. I explored the ways in which react can make a smooth user experience, and how complexity can increase with ease, depending on how organized you are. But then I learned about the router, specifically React Router. It didn't make sense to me: handling the page urls on the client side, where there might be security issues. I still had little idea of what security was actually at play in React Router, so I just kept learning without really knowing why, let alone how, we use a router on the client side to handle users clicking on new page links within the app. But now, after using Node.js for little over an hour, it is all coming together.

When we click on a link in React Router, we change the url but do not send a request to some server. But what does that mean exactly? It means that the JavaScript reads the fact that the url changed, and tries to find the elements that need to be rendered at that url. If we use a multipage application, we DO send an actual request to a server, specifically the one located at the domain name plus whatever endpoint we are requesting. Then, that's where node.js comes in and responds accordingly, usually with a new HTML page. So now I also know exactly what was meant by a "action on the current route" in the React Router library. An action, versus a loader, is a request sent to that server with that url specified, to retrieve data or even send a new page. A loader (where we can use the useLoader hook for getting its data within a component) is used to send ANY request to ANY url or service, such as Firebase Firestore, to retrieve data on page load. So, to retrieve data from a RESTful API, we need to put that API key on a node.js server, located at the domain name, and retrieve that data on the backend, respond to the frontend with that data, and the frontend gets that data asynchronously. The frontend react app can retrieve this data by sending a request through a loader, and/or the useEffect hook and react state management. 

Learning this has been quite the "ah-ha!" moment for me, and I am eager to learn more about how the web works exactly with node.js. The backend has always interested me more than the frontend, because the logistics are more technical and engineer-y than the creative side of working with the UI. I wonder how the backend will work with Next.js when I come around to learn it? After all, we need to address the issue of SEO and SSR. 
