# CS-470: Serverless Full Stack App Reflection
I have learned several skills while working on the serverless full stack application in this class. I have learned how to solve problems from the small details to the overall project needs. As a developer, I have shown my strength in paying careful attention to both the code and underlying architecture design. Understanding how serverless works has enabled me to qualify for new roles in the industry, such as a cloud solutions architect and cloud engineer. These roles require a great deal of conceptual and practical exposure to design and execute projects. I believe I have gained this experience, and plan to use it in my future career paths. 

Serverless is a great tool for scale and error handling. I would use serverless services such as AWS to manage the scale for me by using the auto-scaling features included in S3. Error handling would need to be handled in the integrated environments, but also within the interfaces provided by AWS. There are numerous ways to debug in the AWS dashboard, but there are more ways to see what is happening through other menus, for example, the API Gateway’s request and response configuration. The cost of the application becomes predictable when we measure the cost per millisecond that AWS offers. We can do simple math or use AWS’s cost predictions to see how the cost of running many requests and functions will be. In terms of containers and serverless, I believe serverless is more predictable in cost due to this understandable pricing and scaling. 
