# SASS: Syntactically Awesome Style Sheets

SASS is a css pre-processor that extends css into a more flexible and maintainable language. As projects grow, so does the complexity and repetition of css. SASS helps simplify the complex functions of css by adding variables, nested rules, mixins, and many other things that reduce the repetition. We can set variables equal to say, a color, and use that variable within classes and element selectors to enable a flexible and readable codebase. This enables developers to switch colors and values quickly as needed, so that it changes all elements that use that variable. More specifically, a page's primary and secondary color can be changed instantly by simply changing the variables, which allows a quick change in color design in case UI/UX designers change their mind. 

Personally, I like the nested rules. Nested rules allow a developer to select children in elements simply by placing the rules inside of the parent rules. This works with my programming brain, where it almost reminds me of a function's scope or even JSON in some ways. This speeds up development, and also sections the code more logically. It is easy to see which rules are affecting children visually, instead of having to read more of the selector's wording. It also enables me to keep the concerns close within reach of themselves, especially if I add a new rule later. Lastly, SASS is great for components. We use mixins to make a reusable component, for use later in applications. For example, if we wanted to make a modal of a same color but different sizes, then we make a mixin that takes size values specified by us. Overall, SASS is a great tool for reusable and flexible designs. It may not be the fastest for development, but it makes up for it by keeping the high customization and flexibility that vanilla css has unlike css frameworks and component libraries. 
