# Don't Leave Security To The End

The statement “don’t leave security to the end” means to apply security during development, not after. When making features such as email reminders and mobile bank account access, it is paramount that security is built into the features as they are developed. Depending on the implementations, some features have to have security tightly coupled with business logic behind it. This can sometimes be inevitable, like buffer overflows for example. Checking for buffer overflows requires logic to be wrapped in control flow, which can be problematic when the code becomes increasingly complex. “Don’t leave security to the end” as a statement means to implement security as soon as it would become a concern in development as a best practice. 

Some steps we can take as developers to prevent threats is to use best practices and tools. Best practices must be backed by secure principles such as “don’t trust the user”. A best practice in this matter would be to separate cryptographic keys from what is being encrypted. It would not make sense to leave the key where the data is exposed to the public. Some automated tools can also assist with preventing threats such as static analysis tools. Cppcheck is a tool that can track when memory or logic errors occur in class or function code. Dynamic tools such as Valgrind can also help with runtime errors in memory or more complex program vulnerabilities. To prevent threats, best practices can help stop issues before they are put into the system. If some vulnerabilities do make it into production or testing, then automated tools can help mitigate threats when they occur.

