# Showing My Brother A Trick: Never Trust The User

When we make frontend software, we have to keep in mind that the code is all accessible by the client. I showed my brother a trick on how to bypass some paywalls on websites from NYT, Fortune, Quizlet, and others. Some content, such as articles and study cards, are put behind a paywall in order to motivate (or coerce) a user to pay for premium content. The idea is good, but the execution matters most, especially since that content is viewable by the browers in the form of HTML and CSS. I showed my brother that although there is a paywall modal "stopping" me, I can simply inspect the page and remove the modal from view with a simple "display: none" attribute in the chrome dev tools. Since the data is in fact locally stored (the data was already sent to you), it's perfectly legal. This is the fault of the developer! Now you might be thinking, "not everyone knows how to do that, so why is it a problem?" Perhaps it's not as widespread, but I just taught someone else outside the industry how to do this within a couple dozen minutes. And I'm sure you can find out how to do this on an article if you googled it.

The lesson learned is that a web developer can never trust the client, no matter how skilled they are or not. You especially should not put any sensitive information on the frontend such as API keys. Because if it's on a line of code, it's probably easily found through automation code. This "Never Trust the User" security principle is paramount to all coding, not just web development. 
