# May 3rd 2023 - Docker Basics and Practice

Today I learned the fundamentals of Docker images, containers, and how to create them.

Containerization is best to use in scenarios where we need to pass an application from one environment or system to another rapidly and frequently. For example, containerization helps with development all the way through to production. We need to test an application thoroughly before launch, but there may be a lot of unnecessary downtime setting up apps on testers' environments/systems, and setting up those environments themselves as well. Containerization helps make sure that the downtime is minimized by sending a container with all the configurations set up. As an app user base grows, we also need to expand the computation power of the app. Containerization makes this easy by having a standard blueprint "image" of the app so it can be run on the same or new server quickly. Virtual machines are much more computationally expensive to run a single instance of the app compared to containers running on a single OS or VM.

Containerization can also be unnecessary. If we are freelancing or working with smaller companies who need in-house applications used by employees, then containerization may be unnecessary work. Some apps only need to be run on a few servers, and taken down or put up only on the occasion. Containerization doesn't just have a problem with small scenarios, but all scenarios in terms of security. If the host OS is exposed, all the containers are exposed. On a virtual machine, this is mitigated better with the virtualization of OS's. To combat this, sometimes containers are used in conjunction with VM's to get the best of both worlds, with a slight sacrifice in the performance benefits of containers.
