
# First Exposure to AWS Lambda and API Gateway: Hands on and Concepts

The first impression I have with AWS Lambda was something like "wow, this is great, but I see why it is among many tools, and not the end all". AWS Lambda struck me as a service that makes business logic easy. We don't have to provision servers: we can simply write the code we need to send emails, access databases, and access other services in response to an event. Now I'm starting to really understand the hype around serverless, and how it can make a better developer experience as well as deliver a good product. What's the most interesting to me is that Lambda is a compute model, where it only requests and uses processing power when it needs to, avoiding the entire need for a constant-running machine/server. 
It feels a lot like Firebase, which is what I was first exposed to as far as BaaS, PaaS, and IaaS. But AWS offers BaaS just as Firebase, and many other services that make up the incredible infrastructure. It is quite the time to be a developer, where one person can make a full stack application all by themselves using all the software and hardware available today.

API Gateway is also quite interesting, but I can't say much in terms of comparisons, as I have only made one REST API, and that was with a guide. But I can already tell that it speeds up the process of making RESTful API's by setting up the URL for you, expected parameters and body, and headers. It also helps with authentication and authorization, of course, where we can regulate which users access the resource. Gateway can invoke a Lambda function from a request, allowing for a more event-driven approach where we can trigger events based on user input or actions. We can send a simple email for example, to confirm if a user submitted a form such as signing up or creating a new entity in an app. 
